this is a recipe called eggs and Cocotte
with morels and were ELLs are mushrooms
they're wild mushrooms and you can buy
them sometimes dried in packets like
this and in fact I sometimes think dried
mushrooms are better because they have a
more concentrated flavor what they look
like is not actually very glamorous but
they they're dried so they look quite
unattractive for what you do is you soak
them in warm water and then they look a
little bit more interesting the color is
better and they plump up but they do
have a most incredible intense mushroom
flavor and what you do with those is you
put them in a food processor with some
dark guild mushrooms like this 3
shallots a quarter of a whole nutmeg
grated and some seasoning and then you
just whizz them up in the processor
until they're chopped minutely small now
you can do all that by hand if you want
to with a very sharp knife but it's much
better or quicker rather if you do it in
the processor then you transfer the
whole lot to some butter in a saucepan
and you cook them for about 25 to 30
minutes the time depends on how long it
takes for all the juices out of the
mushrooms to evaporate and the flavor
become concentrated so what you're left
with is a mixture like this and no spare
juice and of course the flavor gets more
and more intense then the next thing you
do is you take a tablespoon full of
creme fraiche add it to the mushroom
mixture and then that just loosens it if
you're watching your fat the fat content
of your diet you can use Greek yogurt
instead of creme fraiche but it is
rather nice if it's nice and creamy now
that just loosens the mixture what I'm
now going to do is split it into four
and divide it between these which are
little ramekin dishes sometimes called
Kukoc dishes and they've been very well
buttered so we'll just put the first
amount in like that about a quarter and
then what you do is just make a little
sort of dent in the middle squeeze it
round like
next break in a fresh egg in goes the
egg and that just sits on top of the
mushroom mixture and then we need some
seasoning of pepper and salt and then
we're going to spoon a little bit more
creme fraiche or Greek yogurt over the
top of the egg like that just put a
little tiny bit more then take a palette
knife and just slide it all around and
what I forgot to tell you was you save
two of those lovely morels keep them
whole and then slice them in half and
then you can garnish the top with one
like that the next thing you do is fill
the dish with about half an inch of
boiling water straight from the kettle
pop them into a medium oven center shelf
and they'll take about 15 or 18 minutes
to cook what you want is lovely sort of
wobbly soft yolks and the whites just
set so let's have a look at some that we
have got that are in the oven here and
there we have the finished exams
and you'll need lots of nice really good
bread to serve with them but I just want
you to have a look inside
it's just really really soft and creamy
look the yolk is just soft and runny and
the white perfectly set now that is eggs
in Cocotte with morels and that is
pretty special I think you're going to
enjoy making
you